All right guys so in the last video I showed you how to implement CSX in a few different ways.
And the most common way is going to be by using an external style sheet like style dot CSX and then
bringing it in using the link tag.
But like I said for the sandbox for this section I'm going to be using internal CSX in a style tag just
so we have everything on one page just for the sake of learning.
OK so let's create a new file here and we're going to call this zero to underscore selectors dot each
team out.
Because what I want to talk about is the different ways that we can select content to style or select
elements or tags to style.
So let's put in our boilerplate here with VSO code and let's call the CSX selectors
and we're going to put in some style tags here.
OK and then as far as the body I'm going to just put in some simple aged him l will have a div and inside
this div let's do an H two.
We'll just say welcome and paragraph.
Let's do Lorem 20 tab and then let's do another div and we'll do another H two and we'll say about paragraph
Lorem 20 tab.
OK.
So let's save this and let's open it up with live server.
If you're using live server so we have two divs with heading in a paragraph.
Now in the last video we took an H two and we gave it a color.
Let's go ahead and do that.
We'll see green.
And if I save that what happens is it's going to take every single each to on the page and style it
green.
Now there's gonna be cases where you don't want every single element whatever that element is to be
styled you want to pick and choose what you want to style like.
Let's say we only want this this one this first one to be green.
In that case we would use an idea or a class.
So if I were to add Ida green dash heading I could go up here and I could add onto this age to a no
sign which represents an I.D. and then the name of the I.D. and I could have called it called it absolutely
anything if I save that notice only the first one is green.
OK.
Because it's targeting this I.D..
Now this is actually optional we don't have to put the actual element.
However if we keep it off like that we could add this green heading idea to anything and it would be
in effect if I added to a paragraph it would turn the paragraph color green although that wouldn't make
much sense because we call the green heading but for the most part you're not gonna see the actual element
at least in my experience.
Now remember what I said about classes and I.D. This is not really something I would put inside of an
I.D. because it doesn't really for one thing we might want to use this again we might want another green
heading somewhere an I.D. should be something that there's only one of.
So I would actually change this to a class and then to target a class.
The styling is the same way it's just this right here instead of a number sine you want a dot.
So if I save that notice it's still green.
OK.
So just remember no sign is for I.D. dot is for classes and I'm just going to comment this stuff out
just so you have just you have some reference and I'll do an I.D. and I'll I'll add that as well later
on.
So now what I want to do is talk a little bit about naming conventions.
This is not really a good name because at any point we might want to change this to a different color
like blue maybe maybe it's a Web site for a company and they change their branding.
So if I save that it's now blue and then this this heading or I'm sorry this this title here the class
name makes no sense.
So what I would do is I'd call this something like primary heading instead of green heading.
OK.
That way it's just your primary color your or your headings primary color you mean it might even have
a secondary heading class if you want a different color and it doesn't have to just be color you could
change the font size whatever it is that you want but you want to think about your naming conventions.
OK.
And you want to think about the future.
Could this change in the future so calling it green heading is not really a good choice even though
it's it's going to work.
It's just it doesn't it's not it's not a smart choice semantically.
All right.
So now what I want to do is see let's add an I.D. to these divs so we'll call this one welcome and let's
call this one about.
OK.
So you see all this makes sense because we're not going to have another welcome Dev or another about
div.
So an I.D. is a good choice for this.
So if I wanted to let's say let's say give the welcome idea background color I could target it like
this.
All right.
And I'll say background or background color and don't worry about any of these properties I don't want
you to focus on these because we're going to talk about all of these later.
I just I want you to focus on the selectors.
So I'm going to give this a background color of a hexadecimal value that's actually a light gray.
So if I save that notice that this only has that background color.
So let me put a comment here and say no sign is for I.D. Now what if I want to have some styling but
I want it for both of these divs right here.
OK.
So if we want to do that we can use multiple selectors.
So what I'll do is I'll take the welcome.
OK.
The div with the idea of welcome.
Put a comma and then put the div with the idea of a bow and then put my styling.
So let's say I want to give them a border of one pixel solid.
Do you like gray.
I'm going to talk about these numbers probably in the next video or the one after that and then I also
want to add a little bit of padding and margin bottom of five pixels.
All right.
So going to save that.
And that style was now it was applied to both of these divs because I used multiple selectors and I
could add more if I want doesn't have to be I.D. I could put an H to I could put a paragraph I could
put a class whatever I want and that would take on all of these styles in here.
OK.
Now let's say I wanted to target a specific for instance a specific paragraph inside of a specific div
like let's say the welcome paragraph.
I want that font size to be bigger.
What I could do is I could use a nested selector
by saying D welcome and then space paragraph.
You don't want to do a comma what that means is is it means all the divs or all the elements with the
idea of welcome in all paragraphs.
You don't want that comma because we want to say inside the the element of welcome we want the paragraph
inside of it.
OK.
And then let's say font size we'll do 20 pixels by the way 16 is the default.
But I'll talk about pixels and all that and a little bit.
So I save that.
Notice that only the welcome div paragraph has the font size of 20.
All right.
So let's see what else we can also style the body.
So if we go up here say body styling.
So we'll take.
Body and body is usually where you put lye if you want the whole Web site or the whole web page to have
a background color.
You could do that.
I'm going to give it a hexadecimal of three three three which is a dark gray.
So if I save that you'll see it.
It changes the whole body.
Now the reason we can't read this right here is because by default the text is black.
So what I'll do is I'll go to I'll just target the about the div with the bow and I'll change the color
which is the text color to white so that we can see it.
OK.
And I know this is pretty ugly looking but I just want you to know the different types of ways to basically
select and style different elements.
OK.
So instead of body styling I'm just going to say element
selector
OK.
Because we're grabbing the actual element or the actual tag when I say element.
I just mean tag the body itself is the element div is the element H2 is the element with the angle brackets
is a tag.
So I use them interchangeably.
All right.
So we have elements or selectors just make this consistent here elements selectors dot is for classes
number for I.D. We have multiple selectors by using a comma we have nested selectors we can select stuff
inside of other elements and those that's pretty much the basics.
I mean we have other things like pseudo selectors and and stuff like that but I'm not going to get into
that now I just want you to understand the fundamentals of selecting elements and being able to style
them.
All right so that's it guys.
I will see you in the next video.